This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

# EXPERIMENTAL CITY BUILDER INCREMENTAL GAME

Name:  Giovanni Oriuela<br>
Aliases: Ganaram Inukshuk; gd_inuk<br>
Class: CSE-405 Spring 2019<br>
Prof.: Dr. David Turner

This readme will be used as the program's software requirements specification (SRS).<br>
This document is tentative and is subject to change.

Expect some formatting mistakes as I get the readme properly set up.<br>

UPDATED: 06 JUN 19

## DEFINITIONS

### Gameplay Terms:
 - Incremental game - A genre of games where the goal is to increment a number as high and as fast as you can. A noteworthy example is Cookie Clicker.
 - City builder/simulator - A genre of games where the goal is to build a city. Noteworthy examples include SimCity 4 and Cities: Skylines.
 
### Programming Terms:
 - JavaScript - The main programming language used for the game.
 - React - A JavaScript library used to create the user interface for the game.
 - JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) - The notation used to represent savefiles for the game.
 
### Implementation Terms:
 - Manager - A class used to handle some aspect of gameplay. Managers take in a value and use statistics to generate semi-realistic data for other managers to use.
 - Vector - In C++, a vector is a type of data structure that is basically a resizable array. In this project, "array" and "vector" are used interchangeably.
 
### Statistical Terms:
 - Probability distribution - A mathematical function that provides the probabilities of occurrences of different possible outcomes of an experiment (Source: Wikipedia). Here, probabilities are not calculated using a function but using an array of preset probabilities (weights vector).
 - Weights vector - An array of probabilities used by a manager. The sum of these weights must add up to 1.
 
### Miscellaneous:
 - Arrow notation - One of many ways to write JavaScript functions. React uses arrow notation ( => ) for implementing functions in JavaScript.

## "Gameplay"

The game is currently set up like a Cookie Clicker clone. Residents pay taxes and exports are sold and the tax money is used to fund city projects (residential buildings, education).

The player starts off with 250000 money, enough to build up to 250 houses right away. The population inevitably will require a place to work (for adults) and a place to go to school (for children); these have to be provided by the player as the city grows.

Behind the scenes, the city builder consists of classes, called "managers", that handle some aspect of the simulation.

### General functionality of a manager:
 - Each manager has a hardcoded array of values (referred internally as vectors) that handle distributions. There is additional code designed to handle tiny fluctuations to these distributions, to make things interesting.
 - There are setters and getters for each manager. The getters are mainly used for passing values between managers, whereas the setters are used for loading from a savefile. (The getters are also used for retrieving data to be saved.)
 - Certain managers have a generate function (they have "generate" in the name) used to generate a semi-realistic distribution; for example, housing distribution for the housing manager.

Due to the inherent complexity of a city simulator, a minimum of two managers will be implemented. Other managers may be added as time permits.
The descriptions of these managers (and other proposed managers) are described below.
<!-- 
### DemandManager
STATUS: PROPOSED
 - The DemandManager generates demand for the city. Demand is based either on random number generators or based on the population itself.
 - Housing demand, for example, is generated by a random number generator; this number is passed to the OccupancyManager and that number adds (or subtracts if it's negative) to the total of occupied households. Housing demand represents the number of occupants that wish to move in (or out) of your city.
 - Demand changes every in-game week. -->

### HousingManager 
STATUS: Implemented
 - The HousingManager is a counter whose range is [0, INFINITY). It simply tracks the number of households currently available in the city, regardless of whether they're occupied.
 - Housing is updated every time the player builds a house in the city.

### OccupancyManager
STATUS: Not implemented; functionality is currently combined with the HousingManager
 - The OccupancyManager is a counter whose range is [0, TOTAL], where TOTAL is the total number of available housing from the HousingManager.
 - The number of occupied houses is broken up into 8 groups: houses occupied by 1 person, two persons, all the way to 8 persons.
 - The distribution is loosely based on United States census data and also follows a Poisson distribution; this averages to about three persons per household.
 - The number of occupied households changes depending on housing demand; every in-game week, a random number is added to the running total of occupied houses. The number of occupied households is passed to the PopulationManager to generate a city population.
 - Population is updated every in-game week.
 - The HousingManager and OccupancyManager are currently merged into one manager; see MISC DEVNOTES.

### PopulationManager
STATUS: Implemented
 - Calculates the number of people that fall into which age group using data from the OccupancyManager
 - There are 10 age groups; age groups go from 0-9, 10-19, 20-29, all the way to 90+
 - The data for the United States's population pyramid is used to calculate the number of people within each age group
 - The population is also broken up into 5 general groups: children (0-9), teens (11-19), young adults (20-39), adults (40-69), and seniors (70+)
 - Meaningful data can only be generated once there are 100 occupied households (population of ~300)
 - Population is updated every in-game week.

### WorkforceManager
STATUS: Implemented
 - Provides employment capacity for the city's workforce. Workforce is 70% of the total young adult and adult populations.
 - Each worker provides a moderate amount of revenue.
 - Workforce is updated every in-game week.

### EducationManager
STATUS: Implemented
 - Provides school capacity for the city's children. Student count is 70% of the total children and teen populations.
 - Each seat has a high cost per week.
 - Education is updated every in-game week.
<!-- 
### TaxManager
STATUS: Proposed
 - Calculates the amount of tax money generated based on property tax (for occupied residential structures) and sales tax (for stores).
 - Every project in the city has a cost (obviously) and taxes is how city projects are funded. Currently, the tax rate is a constant number and cannot be changed. -->
 
## SAVEFILES
 
To be determined

## MISC DEVNOTES

### Merging the HousingManager and OccupancyManager into one manager
 - The number of available houses may change from time to time, usually due to demolition or loss of structures to natural disasters (possibly in future versions). Because of this, the number of available houses may fall below the number of occupied houses (this only happens if every house in the city is occupied). If this is the case, people may lose their homes and result in an overall population drop. (Recall that population is based on the number of occupied households.)

### WorkforceManager is unable to separate workforce into commercial and industrial workers
 - Many city builders (SC4, C:S, for example) distinguish the workforce into two main categories: commercial workers and industrial workers. For simplicity's sake, this prototype merges the two together.
